---
layout: post
title: In The End
---
Wow, we made it. We made it through. Huffing, puffing and dragging our feet through the dirt as we inched closer and closer to an end while the unknowable, unpredictable future lies ahead. It is quite surreal to look back on everything, some of us went through and dealt with personal discomfits, transients, tragedies and shit we never saw coming others such as the medical workforce, frontline workers went through and dealt with the tragedy of an populace inflicted with an invisible antigen while being at most times overburdened, all this while nature took a little break and breathed and the world itself had a collective existential crisis.

I'll come back and expunge more of my brimming albeit convoluted thoughts on things when I've gathered them to a decent thread of coherence. After all, it's quite a lot to process right?

Everyone loves to blame it all on the year now, including things that even go remotely bad, and I guess it's somewhat justified. I feel like this might just spill over into the usage of 2020 as a morbid joke in pop culture from here on out even into the distant future, it's not surprising. 

Those who did have even an ounce of productivity this year have both my awe and respect, can wholeheartedly pat themselves on the back for their shred of luck, and likewise so do all of us who have survived through the ordeal.

Lessons learnt?

Plenty I think right? Firstly, most of us never saw any of it coming, and even if we did nothing would or could have prepared us for anything which says a lot about our ephemeral and seemingly insignificant existence in the universe, though the experience of it all would have instilled a few existential (or non-existential?) lessons on those who might have assumed otherwise before. The major lessons to be learnt are by those in government, corporations and major institutions that have a significant share of hold over the everyday mundane life activities and proclivities, though the layman bears similar if not identical share of idiosyncratic tutorials from nature.

Personally, I didn't make any strides that would usually make me feel a bit better before falling asleep, but I held on like everyone else did which is a reasonable ask I suppose. Well then, let's go forth onto the next and don't look back in anger.
